At this point, let's go ahead and save this file, and now we better go into our follow model and set
up a method named Get Followers by I.D..
So in our models folder, let's dig into the file named Follow J.S. Within this file, let's scroll
down to the very bottom.
And right before the module DOT exports line, we can create a new function, let's say uppercase follow
dot, get followers by I.D. This should equal a function.
Let's be sure to include a parameter to receive the incoming ID.
All right.
And we want this function to return a promise.
So let's say return new promise.
Let's give the promise and async arrow function.
So async parentheses, arrow symbol, curly brackets.
Let's be sure to give it parameters of resolve and reject.
All right.
And now within the body of this function, let's create a variable, let's name it follower's, let
follower's equal.
And now we'd want to start working with our follows collection in the database.
So we already created a variable for that named follows collection.
And now instead of running a simple command like find or find one, we actually want to do something
a bit more complex.
So let's say dot aggregate.
Before we worry about what to include in these parentheses, let's first end this line with DOT to array
because aggregate is going to return data that makes sense to Mongo DB but maybe wouldn't make sense
to our application from a raw JavaScript perspective.
This just makes sure that what it ultimately returns is a simple JavaScript array.
Also, I should say that this is not going to return an array as much as it's going to resolve with
the value of an array, because this is going to return with a promise.
So at the start of it right here, we can just say, oh, wait, now before things go any further,
let's remember to wrap this within a try block.
So just cut this line of code into your clipboard and then let's say try curly brackets and then catch
curly brackets.
Let's go ahead and paste our code back into the tribe locked in the catch block.
We could just tell our promise to reject.
OK, at this point, let's focus on what we want to include in the parentheses for aggregate.
Let's begin with a pair of square brackets, because we want to provide an array of operations within
the square brackets.
We could drop down.
Each operation is represented as an object.
So curly brackets, let's begin with dollar sign, match colon and then give that an object.
And we're interested in finding any documents in our follows collection where the followed ID field
matches whatever ID was passed into this function.
So just ID.
OK, and now before we move on to the second operation, let's walk through an example.
If instead of viewing my profile, I was viewing the Bark's a lot profile and then I wanted to click
on followers to see all of the users that are following Bachs a lot.
Well, in that case, this method would get called get followers by ID.
The ID that would get passed into it would be the user ID of barks a lot.
So we would look in our follows collection for any documents where the followed ID matches bark's allots
ID.
So if I go into Mongo DB Atlus in my follows collection, here's that one document that represents the
Brad user following the Bachs lot user.
And yes, this document represents that follow relationship to us.
But in terms of what we actually want to display on the front end, if you clicked on Follower's here,
you would want to see the user names and avatars of the people that are following a lot.
You wouldn't just want to see their user ID.
So here's what we need to do next.
This operation is going to find any matching follow documents, but then we need to use the authorized
to look up the related user document that this is pointing towards.
In this example, we would want to find the user document for the Brad account so that we could grab
its user name and its email to determine its Avatar photo.
So let me show you how we can do that at the end of this line.
Let's add a comma and then let's add another operation this time.
Let's say dollar sign.
Look up colon.
Give that an object now we just spell out a few properties, so from should be the collection that we
want to look within.
So that would be the user's collection, comma.
Then we provide a property named local field.
And in this case, that would be author I.D., local field.
Meaning which field in the following document do you want to perform this look up or match by.
OK, then we can say comma foreign field and this would be underscore I'd right.
We're looking in the user's collection for documents where the I.D. matches the author's ID from the
follow document.
And finally after the ID, we would say comma and add a property named as and we can make up any name,
but let's call it user doc.
OK, so all together, what the lookup is going to do is now the object that's going to be returned
instead of only having ID followed ID and author ID, it's going to have another virtual field of property
named User Doc.
Write that as name that we just chose and it's actually going to be an array of objects.
However, in this case, we know that there's only going to be one user object that would match this
ID, so we don't need a separate array.
So at the very end of this line, let's add a comma and let's add one more operation this time.
Let's say Dollar Sign Project Colon and then give it curly brackets.
OK, this is our chance to spell out what should exist in the object that this ultimately returns.
This is using more of an opt in approach than an opt out approach, meaning if you don't specifically
list a property here, it's not going to be included.
So we don't need to include authorized or followed ID.
Now that we've performed the match in the lookup, those are completely irrelevant to us.
All we really want to return is the user name and email from this matching user account.
So let's say username Colen, give it an object.
Let's say dollar sign array elim at Colen square brackets quotes dollar sign user doch dot username
after the quotes comma zero.
Because remember user doch is actually going to be an array of any matching looked up documents.
We know that we're only going to be interested in the first item in that array.
So we're setting a username property and on that first item in the array we're grabbing the user name
property.
Cool.
Let's do the same thing for email so we can actually just copy this line and duplicate it.
Be sure to add a comma at the end of this first line and then let's change this to email and then change
the DOT username to dot email.
So ultimately what this is going to return is an array.
Each item in the array will be an object that has properties, username and email of the person that's
following the current profile user.
Now, we don't actually want to display their email address on the front end.
We're only interested in their email in order to calculate their graviton photo.
So let's do this right after this.
To Array ends, let's add a new line and let's just modify the array that this is returning.
So we're storing it in this follower's variable so we can just say follower's equals follower's dot
net and now we can give this a function to do something once for each item in that array.
It's a function parentheses, curly brackets in the parentheses.
Be sure to include a parameter, call it follower, OK?
And now whatever we return within this function is what will get added on to the new array.
Before we go any further right here, let's write ourselves a comment.
Let's say create a user.
OK, we can circle back to this in about twenty seconds from now.
Let's go up to the top of this file and import in our user model, because our user model has the code
to look up aggravator based on a user's email address.
So we can just recycle that up at the top of this file.
Let's just add a new variable at the very top.
Let's say const user equals and then just require n we're already in the models folder.
So just look within the same folder dot slash for a file named uppercase user.
Now we can leverage this, so scroll back down to that comment we just left ourselves right within our
follow get followers by idee.
Here's that create a user comment instead of that comment.
Let's say this.
Let's say let lower case user equal a new instance of upper case user for the first argument.
Let's just pass in the current follower object.
Right.
That will be the data that populates this constructor function, comma.
And then let's just say true.
Remember, we set this up so that when you call the user constructor, if you say true here, it's going
to automatically figure out the graviton based on the user's email address.
So then ultimately within this map function, we would just return an object.
And let's say the object should have a property named username, which could just be follower dot username,
comma.
It should also have a property named Avatar, which would just be lowercase user dot avatar.
Perfect, right.
Because those are the two pieces of data we would actually want to show on the front end of our website,
the user name of whoever is doing the following and the avatar of whoever is doing the following.
Now, right after this closing curly bracket in parentheses for our map, let's just add a new line
and we are ready to resolve with our followers as the value.
Lets go ahead and save this and then let's jump back into user controller to refresh our memory of what
we're doing.
Remember, we created this controller function named profile follower screen, and ultimately we just
want to render a template named Profile Dash Follower's so that when you click on Follower's here on
a user profile, you would see a list of all the users that are following this user.
So we just set things up so that now this will be populated with a list of those users and avatars.
Right.
And then we're passing that into our template.
This means we are ready to go create a template with this name, profile dash followers and then just
loop through this array of followers.
So right now, within the route of our project folder, look for the views folder.
Let's right click on views and choose a new file.
Let's name this new file profile.
Dash Follower's SJS.
Now, there's no sense starting from scratch here.
Let's just go into our profile.
SJS file, select everything into our clipboard.
Copy that.
And then back in the new profile, dash follower's just paste in your clipboard.
The only thing we'd need to change is the array that we're looping through.
So around line number nine, you can see I'm working with the posts variable and then trying to loop
through it.
So instead of posts for each, let's say, follower's dot for each, let's change the name of the parameter
being passed in from post to follower.
OK, for the opening attack, let's change the RF value, so let's hollow out those quotes.
Instead, we'd want to link to slash profile slash and then their user name only to do something dynamic.
We would say SJS just follower dot username.
OK, on the next line for the image of their avatar, you can see the source is already a dynamic Ejaz
tag.
Instead of post author Avatar, it would just be follower dot avatar.
OK, and then finally for this last line, you could show their user name in bold, but I would just
want regular non bold text so I would just hollow out this last line completely and instead just drop
into SJS and say follower dot username.
Cool, let's go ahead and save this and test it out.
So I know that barks a lot.
Should have one follower, the brat account.
So if I click on Follower's.
Cool.
We see the user for now, don't worry about the fact that it still looks like the posts screen is selected
or highlighted.
We'll cover that shortly.
For now, let's make sure that this would work with multiple users to display.
So in this window, I'm logged in with an account named Kitty Doe.
Let's imagine this Kitty Doe account wants to begin following the Bark's lot account so I could search
a search for dog.
I would find a post by barks a lot, then I could click on to their profile and click follow.
OK, and then from the barks a lot profile.
If I click on Follower's Cool.
That list of followers now has two users, Brad and Kirito.
That's going to bring this lesson to a close in our next lesson.
Not only will we set up the following screen to list out the relevant users, but we will also adjust
things so that the current page looks visually highlighted instead of it just always looking like the
posts link is active or selected.
Let's keep things rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.